What's going on, Sprout?
Okay. Close your eyes.
I've got a present for you.
And open them!
A stick?
Not just any stick.
It's the twig of enduring friendship.
My grandfather gave it to mewhen I was very small.
-I want you to have it.-What?
No, Sprout. Your grandfather's stick?
Are you sure you want togive it away to him?
You've only just met him.
Grandfather always said that friendshipis something you give to others.
Not something you keep for yourself.
Well, thanks, Sprout.
You promise you'll look after it, right?
Of course I will.
Really, really look after it?
I really, really promise.
Now we'll be friends forever.
Well, we better get to Time Lab.
Professor Chronopher hates itwhen we're late.
Time Lab?
Come on, we'll be late.
Hooligans!
Sorry!
Wolfboy.
Late, late, late.
Such little respect for time.Horatio Chronopher waits for no one!
Welcome to the Time Tunnel.
Above you lies the future.
Below you, the past.
Time sprytes are students of time,an infinitely complicated business.
The sprytes below uspass stories up to us,
and we pass our storieson to the sprytes above us.
This is how we understandthe history of the world.
So, how do you go up and down?
Is there a time traveling elevator?
-Or a magical slide? Or---Don't be ridiculous.
We take the stairs.
But only trained time sprytescan traverse the passage of time.
The stairs are strictly forbidden.
Why?
If you meddle in the past,it's easy to upset things.
Even the slightest changecan steer the very course of history
in ways you did not intend.
Time sprytes study the passage of timebut never change it.
No, we must never change it.
Today we'll be continuingour exploration of history.
Now, where did we get to?
Yes.
Before the humans arrived,
the balance between creationand destruction was relatively stable.
Sprytes would create things,and the disarrays would destroy them.
There existed an uneasy harmonyin the world.
The balance was altered foreverwhen humans arrived.
Unlike sprytes or disarrays,
humans can be both creativeand destructive.
A precarious power.
And sadly for the world,
humans too often tend towards destruction.
Humans always turn up and ruin everything.
Don't they, sir?
Well, that depends on the human.
Yeah, maybe you just needto give humans a chance.
A chance to destroy everything?
Not all of them are like that.Some humans like to create things.
Yeah.Create things to destroy more things.
That's not true!
Sprout, I'm so sorry.
It's okay. It's okay.
Look what you've done.You're just like the rest of them.
Hold on. Xandra, Sprout, wait.
I only just broke the stick.
So if we go down those stairs,
we could go back to before I broke itand bring it back here good as new.
Good as new?
Come on, Xandra. It's worth a shot.
Fine.
He's so cute.
Your turn, Xandra.
Oh, my socks.
Have you ever seen anything more precious?
Okay, I'm done.
No. Come back, little Xandra.
Hey, you sprytelings,
get away from those stairs!
Stop those sprytelings!They're from the future!
Come on! Let's find that stick.
Hooligans!
Sorry!
That's our dorm!
-Let's go!-Wait, wait.
-What if we're in there?-What?
How are we going to explain ourselvesto ourselves if we see ourselves?
What?
I was so adorable back then.
Quick, Sprout, where's the stick?
It'll be in my special hiding placewith all my other treasures.
Here it is.
Put it back. Put it back!
What? What's going on?
If we take this twigof enduring friendship,
the broken twigof enduring friendship disappears.
So what? We'll have the new one.Let's just take that one back.
But what if taking itchanges other things?
Chronopher said that evenchanging tiny things in the past
can have big consequences.
Nobody touch anything!
-Now, nice and slowly.-And without touching anything!
Just come with us.
-You moved the chair!-Where was it?
-Left a bit.-Like that?
-No! The other left!-Oops.
-You moved the books!-You moved the chair!
Wait. Where'd they go?
-Hooligans!-Sorry!
Hey!
-Now where?-Go up.
-Into the future?-Just go, Sprout.
Hey, I'm taller in the future.
-Hooligans!-Sorry!
-Split up. We'll meet back at our dorm.-Split up? Wait.
No, I--
Oh, dear. Oh, dear. Oh, dear.
Hey. Wolfboy's got the twigof enduring friendship.
And I've got the other piece.
Hey. Wait a minute.
-Sprout?-Sprout?
We gave 'em the slip.What are you smiling at?
Nothing.
Okay. Let's get back to the dormbefore they figure out where we are.
Where have you three been?
We were looking for a stick.
Hey, didn't Norman's pot used to be blue?
Hello.
I'm so sorry we couldn't fix it, Sprout.I really thought that might work.
I hope we can still be friends.
It's okay. Now we can each have a piece.
Here you go, Xandra.There's a piece for you too.
I know you're not usuallyone for the soppy stuff, but--
Yeah. I mean, no, I'm not.
But I suppose if it meansso much to you, I guess I'll take it.
See?
Even if we can't change the past,
we can tryand make the best of the future.
Right, Wolfy?
Right.
Hey, Xandra.I can hang up yours too, if you'd like.
Thanks.
Hey.
Sorry for what I said about,you know, humans.
It's happening. It's all happening.
Up time, up, up, upIt's morning
Up time
Up time!
It's too early for your nonsense.
It's never too early for nonsenseNever--
Hey!
Wait. Is today today?
-I think so.-Yes!
It is!
Why is she so excited?
Today is Guardian Lab day.
It's only the most difficult,dicey and dangerous lab there is.
That sounds fun.
Fun? Listen, human.
You've managed to bluff your waythrough all the labs so far…
-I thought that was the plan.-But this is different.
You need to take Guardian Labvery seriously.
It's where we train to guard ourselvesagainst the disarrays.
Disarrays?Like those creeps from Flora's wood?
They weren't that bad.
Those were just the tip of the iceberg.
There are many different typesof disarrays.
Each one more deadly than the last.
This sounds just the job for Excaliboom!
It's a magic light lance. You know,for stunning lake monsters and stuff.
That piece of junk may workagainst silly fake monsters,
but we're trainingto fight real disarrays.
Right. It's gonna needa bit of tinkering with then.
Cool. What else? What else?
What's that?
It's a Runic Reflector.A magical shield of sorts.
It protects you from curses, hexes,jinxes, unwarranted small talk.
-All kinds of things.-That is not a magical shield.
It's just some human stuffthat he's taped together.
Now this…
This is a magical shield.
I don't know, Xandra.Wolfboy's one looks pretty shield-y to me.
Let's just rememberthat you don't have any actual powers.
These human toys aren't gonna help youin the Guardian Lab.
Don't worry,she gets all her grumps out by breakfast.
That ridiculous song.
You know, Xandra,humans do come up with some great stuff.
Like what?
Icy-cream.
Come on, Xandra. Cheer up.
That's right. We mustn't dwell. Not today.
Not on Guardian Lab day!
I hope you're ready, human.
It can't be that dangerous.It's just practice, right?
Right. But Professor Athena,she's not exactly by the book.
But hey,no one's been seriously injured yet.
Professor Athena?
-First lesson: Expect the unexpected.-Yes!
Athena's one of the coolestguardian sprytes that ever lived.
She defeated a hundred disarraysall on her own.
A hundred? Try a thousand.
But when Xandra grows up,
she's gonna be the roughest,toughest guardian spryte of them all.
Oh, Sprout, shush.
Eager young faces on the starting lineof life's great adventure.
But which of you has it in themto become a legendary guardian?
Guardian sprytes are the protectorsof the realm.
The first and last defenseagainst the disarray threat.
Who can tell mewhat a guardian spryte looks like?
-Guardian sprytes---Wrong!
Nobody can describewhat a guardian spryte looks like
because a guardian is not aboutwhat you look like on the outside.
It's about what kind of spryte you areon the inside.
And any one of you young onescan become a guardian.
A true guardian must be brave,
adaptable and… prepared.
And to that end, let us begin.
Xandra.
Yes!
Guardian sprytes must be preparedto fight darkness in any form.
And let me tell you,disarrays come in all shapes and sizes.
Inkies, slinkies, screaming neenees.
Foggers, rotters, memory mites.
Itching millies, crawling marys,slurring screebnies!
But of course, when it comes to preparingfor a real disarray encounter,
there's really only one thing you need.
Practice!
Attack!
Yes. Excellent reflexes.
This doesn't seem too scary.
Wise guy, eh?
Too slow! Disarray? More like miss-array.
Wolfy.
Is that laughter I hear?
You think disarrays are funny?
Maybe this one. A little.
Perhaps it's time we move onto a more advanced lesson, eh?
Who here can tell me about scurillions?
They're shape-shifters.
Their shapes can shift,and you may never know
if the spryte sat beside youis a friend or a foe.
Excellent, Xandra.
Yes.Scurillions are tricky little disarrays.
Not too dangerous,so long as you keep your wits about you.
-So was that the advanced lesson?-Oh, no.
That begins now!
Defeat the disarrays, young sprytelings,and they'll return to their cell.
Little help?
Bees!
Excellent, young lady. Excellent.
You may just have it in youto be a great guardian one day.
Thanks.
I love you.I mean, I love this. Battling disarrays.
Isn't this fun, Sprout? Sprout?
Wolfy, that's not me. I'm me.
I told youyour silly toys aren't gonna work.
Perhaps that's enough learningfor one day.
Let me gather these things up.
Why would Athena,
the world's greatest warrior,want us to stand down?
Unless--
Wait.
Scurillions are shape-shifters.
Nice try, disarray. Another one down.
What have you done?
Relax, Sprout. The real Athena is right--
I'm sorry. I'm so sorry! I still love you.
Sprout!
They're after me!
Why are they after me?
Wolfy, what about Excaliboom?
That's not gonna work!
Stay back! Or I'll…
Excali…
Impossible.
Boom.